# MoonSigner

`MoonSigner` is an [Ethers signer](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/signer/#Signer) works with Moon’s wallet infrastructure..

“A **Signer** in \*ethers\* is an abstraction of an Ethereum Account, which can be used to sign messages and transactions and send signed transactions to the Ethereum Network to execute state changing operations.” -Ethers docs

**TLDR:** MoonSigner is mainly for **signing**, **creating**, and **sending transactions** over the blockchain

### Configuration:

Below is an example of how to configure `MoonSigner` for a project:

```tsx
import {MoonSigner, MoonSignerConfig } from '@moonup/ethers';
import { MoonSDK } from '@moonup/moon-sdk'; 

// Function to initialize MoonSigner
export const initializeMoonSigner = (moon: MoonSDK, address: string): MoonSigner => {
  const options: MoonSignerConfig = {
    chainId: "1891",
    SDK: moon,
    address: address
  };
  const moonEthersSigner = new MoonSigner(options);
  return moonEthersSigner;
};
```

### Example usage:

Below is an example of a `MoonSigner` instance:

```tsx
//initialize the signer
const moonSigner = initializeMoonSigner(moonSDKInstance, your_address);

//examples of signer use
const signedTransaction = await moonSigner.signTransaction(transactionRequest);
console.log("Signed Transaction:", signedTransaction);

const transactionResponse = await moonSigner.sendTransaction(transactionRequest);
console.log("Transaction Response:", transactionResponse);
```

### MoonSigner Class

#### `constructor(config: MoonSignerConfig, provider?: Provider)`

Creates a new instance of the MoonSigner class.

#### `_signTypedData(domain: TypedDataDomain, types: Record<string, TypedDataField[]>, value: Record<string, any>): Promise<string>`

Signs typed data.

#### `updateConfig(config: MoonSignerConfig): void`

Updates the signer configuration.

#### `connect(provider: Provider): Signer`

Connects the signer to a provider.

#### `signTypedData(domain: TypedDataDomain, types: Record<string, TypedDataField[]>, value: Record<string, string>): Promise<string>`

Signs a typed data object.

#### `getAddress(): Promise<string>`

Returns the address of the signer.

#### `signMessage(message: BytesLike): Promise<string>`

Signs a message.

#### `broadcastTransaction(signedTransaction: string): Promise<string>`

Broadcasts a signed transaction.

#### `sendTransaction(transaction: TransactionRequest): Promise<TransactionResponse>`

Sends a transaction.

#### `transactionRequestToInputBody(tx: TransactionRequest): InputBody`

Converts a transaction request to an input body.

#### `moonTransactionResponseToTransactions(tx: Transaction): TransactionData[]`

Converts a moon transaction response to transaction data.

#### `signTransaction(transaction: TransactionRequest): Promise<string>`

Signs a transaction.

#### `getTypedDataDomain(name: string, version: string, chainId: number, verifyingContract: string): Promise<TypedDataDomain>`

Returns a typed data domain.

#### `getTypedData(domain: TypedDataDomain, types: Record<string, Array<TypedDataField>>, message: Record<string, string>): Promise<Typed>`

Returns typed data.
